September 2023 newsletter (#389)
readthedocs/ethicalads.io: content/posts/newsletter-september-2023.md

Title: EthicalAds Newsletter - September 2023
Date: October 10, 2023
description: Updates from September 2023, including stats and commentary on our progress as we build EthicalAds
tags: newsletter, community, build-in-public
authors: David Fischer
image: /images/posts/2023-september-newsletter.jpg
image_credit: <span>Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@yuabog?utm_content=creditCopyText&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=unsplash">Yuri Bohatyrov</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/fcp9h-YbvvM?utm_content=creditCopyText&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=unsplash">Unsplash</a></span>

## New features

Our progress in September was:

* We produced two content pieces about what happens
  when a publisher on our network [truly goes viral]({filename}../posts/2023-going-truly-viral.md)
  and one on [optimizing European ad campaigns in the GDPR era]({filename}../posts/2023-european-landing-pages-gdpr.md).
* Our ad server hit v3.0 when we upgraded Django, a core dependency
  added some pricing estimations for advertisers to get a better idea

>   of campaign prices when requesting a new campaign.

Reviewer: This reads a bit oddly. Specifically "a core dependency added some pricing estimations for advertisers". Seems like maybe 2 different bullet points got merged together?

Author: Ya, definitely. I'll update it.

* We had **173 publishers** on our network with at least one paid ad impression.
* We had **18,374,509** paid ad views across the world. A slight increase over August.

October is trending a bit higher than September
so we're expecting a slightly stronger month.
We are running a few very broadly targeted campaigns by both geography and topic
which usually results in a higher percentage of our overall inventory being sold.

## Upcoming features

The major features in our upcoming roadmap for October:

* The advertiser reporting features that will help integrate our metrics with Tableau
  to update performance metrics automatically, is continuing but very slowly.
  We're aiming to collaborate with a few advertisers who use Tableau (or something similar)
  to make sure we build exactly what our advertisers want.
  If you're interested in this, please [get in touch]({filename}../pages/contact.md)!
* We are making some improvements to better handle multiple ad placements on the same page.
  Our policy is still to not have our ads beside competitors' ads
  and to have just 1 ad at a time,

>   but there are some situations like very long pages where multiple ad placements make sense.

Reviewer: Does this mean we're looking at updating our policy? The wording here is not super clear about what is actually happening.

Author: I considered this a message to ease people into the change but happy to discuss more. Fundamentally, I don't think our position has changed (much). We don't want our ads to appear on pages full of ads. However, in some situations, having a 2nd ad can make sense.

Reviewer: Maybe something like:

```suggestion
  Our policy is still to not have our ads beside competitors' ads
  and to have just 1 ad at a time,
  but there are some situations like very long pages where we allow multiple ad placements on a case by case basis.
```
